I'm going to show you how to download
and also edit images in paint.net just
for use on your website have a lot of
clients asking me how to edit images so
for a free program paint.net is probably
one of the best you can also try the
GIMP let's Google search those names but
for paint.net I find quite simple go to
the domain name dot dot P indeed.com
from here you'll see a check it out it
get paint.net click on this link you'll
also see a pivot of advertising going on
over here but just do paint.net version
3 download click on that link click on
this mirror link here mirror host
download nail dot paint from dot P and D
click on that and then you've got your
download here you could you could go
straight to this domain name and decom
slash downloads for slash p and d dot
HTML i want you to use it as paint.net
download button click on that click OK
it'll download to your computer once
that is download you can open it and
install the program once you've
installed the program you're ready to
rock and roll and it is free so you
can't really beat that what happens when
it opens and you open your software you
have this screen appear what we're going
to do is we're going to find an image
and reduce it and file size and
dimensions for use on a website file
open the reason why we do this is
cameras normally take two three
megapixel megabyte file sizes and
they're really very large no good for
putting on a website so what we do is
select an image
from here we're going to change the
dimensions at the moment you'll see this
in a moment we're dimensions are image
resize produce then you can also crop if
you like it will resize the inch you'll
see here the width is 102 for a lot of
cameras are Serbian three thousand two
thousand mark and but for a website I
find landscape 480 or if it's a portrait
image to lady with this fine so if we
put 480 here so landscape image it
automatically scales the height to the
image and you can also change the
resolution to 72 for a website you don't
you want your images to be small and
file so so you'll see this is changing
as you're going along once you've got
your width right 480 or 280 you can also
change your with us on inside your
website editing program but it's best to
do it from an outside program first and
we get okay let's resize that image to
480 by 360 which is fine for what we
need you can also crop if you want to
from here you select the rectangle tool
which I done there getting your image
crop to selection and little crop that
image if you want to do that if you
don't like what you've just done to it
controls in it'll take you back one step
you can put text and learning and all
sorts of things in there we've got some
other effects that you can use but for
this tutorial it's all about just
changing the dimensions in the file size
so from here we're going to go to file
save as give it a descriptive name for
your website and use lower case all
around of us going onto the onto the web
if you're a gardening site you want to
put might want to put things like
gardening tulips something that the
search engines can relate to with that
image and I'll help with your ranking
have a little bit more than having
having a em image from a camera filename
which is normally something like D is
c43
five six or something that which means
nothing like gardening tulips actually
means something so if anyone's actually
looking for that underneath on the net
in a search engine you've got a harp
this and chance are coming up once
you've done that you go safe and we're
going to change the quality twenty six
point two zero okay be is actually okay
it's not too bad you want to get your
meters around rather sort of mark a
little bit less than that if you can and
you do that by adjusting the quality if
they were sitting in a hundred percent
quality the image is 145 KB which is way
too big for the Internet
so we just drag this dinner I'd only got
about sixty percent to start with and
that's fine that's all we need to do so
once you get image between fifteen and
thirty you happy with the quality of the
image it's not too blurry the more you
take this down the blurry or it's going
to get as you can see there and you
don't want to be doing that unless
that's the effect that you want
properly internet speed is what you want
so take it to other percentage that
you've got and go okay and that's really
all that you need to do for getting an
image ready to go to put onto your
website hope that helps you thank you